This is a well-written paper that explores the potential of intensity
interferometry measurements of type Ia supernovae.

My main concern is that there are a number of factors concerning observations
with the hypothetical telescope array that are not taken into account, such that
the results are far too idealised to be realistic.

Achieving detection of magnitude 12 systems is quite optimistic and relies on
fast (pico-second) timing. Even if picosecond timing photodetectors are used,
the MST mirror dishes are not isochronous and would introduce an intrinsic
timing spread of a few nanoseconds. This is not mentioned here or in Dalal et al
but should be commented on.

Similarly, 'perfect throughput' is assumed, but in reality the mirrors are only
~80% reflective at installation and degrade over time, whilst the photo detector
itself is also not perfect. This will increase the required exposure time.

In practise, a filter installed to measure at a specific wavelength will also
have a certain width, that may smear the signal for a specific wavelength
compared to your results in e.g. figures 4 and 6.

Note also that long wavelength optical light (>~650 nm) is not reflected by
mirrors designed for Cherenkov telescopes, such that the 8750 Angstrom
wavelength would certainly not be measurable.

Lastly, ground-based detectors have limited visibility and cannot observe all
type Ia supernovae that occur anywhere on the sky throughout the year, such that
the expected rate of observable SNe should be further reduced accordingly.

The study should address these points more quantitatively to obtain a more
realistic estimate of the capabilities of a "CTA-MST-array", or else consider
instead the properties of a different set of optical telescopes, better suited
to the measurement.


Other major points:
The title already mentions the distances to type Ia supernovae, yet there is no
estimate as to the limiting distance range of this technique. Out to what
horizon could this approach be applied to measure the distance to type Ia
supernovae? (Directly given by the limiting magnitude and angular resolution,
but this should be estimated and quoted.)

What array layout and how many baselines are assumed in the simulations?

You quote a series of papers to support the assumed magnitude 12 limit, however
it is unclear if this is really stated in connection to "a hypothetical array
similar to CTA-MST" somewhere, e.g. [11] corresponds to VLA-type detectors,
whereas the Cherenkov telescope references reach magnitude ~4 at best.


some more minor points:

the limiting magnitude assumed should be mentioned in the abstract along with
the distance horizon

L31 "when equipped with can sources" -- when equipped with what? something is
missing.

L36 "patient" not sure what is meant here - "study" perhaps?

Figure 1: the realistic region in these plots is relatively small, i.e. < 10 in
m_lim and < 2 km baseline.
What is the justification for going as high as 8 km baseline? This has no
relevance to the "hypothetical array similar to the MSTs of CTA-South", which at
most is~ 1km.

Fig 1 caption: duplication of "as a function of survey limiting magnitude"

L52 "rule of thumb" --> diffraction limit.

L88 "pharegime" --> phase regime?

L99 delete "Lucy" - it would be more useful to describe the actual method here.

L105-106 this last sentence does not seem to be relevant in this context, please
remove it.

L118-119 mention briefly how the calculation has been accelerated. "By
artificial intelligence" is too broad.

Figure 9 caption:
duplication of plots / panels - would suggest keeping the phrasing "First and
third panels" and "second and fourth panels"



Expand motivation for II versus other techniques.

Use of multi wavelength data.  TARDIS average of two independent measures of a.  SEDONA remove covariance of angle.

Extra information from SiII feature, polarization.
